2. -3 They will have about the same number of differences because they all trace back to the same common ancestor.

3. -3 No differences. The constant amino acids don't vary at all among the organisms.

4. -3 Same number of differences because they last shared common ancestors at the same time in the past.

5. -2 Tree B is the correct tree.

6. -2 Bolete. The rooting polypore has only 20 amino acid differences with the other boletes but 25 amino acid differences with the stinkhorns. Therefore, the rooting polypore shares a more recent ancestor with the boletes.

7. -2 Ash-tree bolete and Frost's bolete. They differ by only 5 amino acids.

8. -2 Only Tree C shows the fewest amino acid differences between birds and reptiles.

9. -2 Tree B predicts no common ancestry between the two groups so they should not have the universal genetic code. Only A and C are supported by the evidence.

10. -2 All three trees predict the reptile-mammal transition. Don’t fall into the trap of thinking the longest line is the organism at the tip. Flip the position of the bird and reptile and you have a reptile/mammal transition but the relationship between reptile and bird has not changed.

10 -2 All three trees predict the reptile-mammal transition.  Don’t fall into the trap of thinking the longest line is the organism at the tip. Flip the position of the mammal and reptile and you have a reptile/mammal transition but the relationship between reptile and mammal has not changed.
    
10 -2 All three trees predict a transition between reptiles and mammals.

11. -2 Tree C predicts reptile-amphibian.

12. -2 Tree C shows all transitions studied in class (fish-amphibian, reptile-mammal, and reptile-bird) in about the same order.

15. -2 TAC GGC CTC AAA TGT GCG ACA CTT ATT

16. -2 UAC GGC CUC AAA UGU GCG ACA CUU AUU

17. -2 Met-Pro-Glu-Phe-Thr-Cys-Glu-Stop

18. -4 All have exactly the same universal code so all will be translated and make the proper protein. Remember I mentioned insulin in class?




+2 extra credit for early submission. See feedback file for comments.